Along with regular reflection, assessing your current risk for anxiety can be an important part of caring for your mental health.
About Anxiety Risk 
Anxiety risk refers to an individual's risk of anxiety-related mental health conditions. This reflects the risk at the time of the most recent mental health assessment score based on the Generalised Anxiety Disorder Questionnaire-7 (GAD-7). The GAD-7 is a tool doctors use to help screen for and measure someone's anxiety symptoms over a two-week period.A mental health questionnaire can be an important part of learning about what's impacting your mental health. Depending on your family history, biology or current life events, your anxiety risk may go up or down.Anxiety is a common and treatable condition. Your anxiety risk is not a diagnosis of any health condition. If you have any questions about your mental health, you should bring them up with a doctor. You can learn more about your current risk of anxiety by taking a mental health questionnaire in Health.
Caring For Your Mental Health Your mental health is essential to your overall health. It can affect your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. There are simple steps you can take to support your mental health. Incorporating some of these tips can help you cope with life's ups and downs, improve your mood, and help you manage your emotions.
Done
Log Your Emotions and Moods
When you keep a log of your emotions and mood, it may be easier to recognize the factors contributing to your state of mind.
You can log your emotions and daily mood in Health. When doing so, it can be useful to think about what emotion or mood you are feeling the most along with what things may be contributing to them.
When you look at emotions and moods you've logged over a period of time, you may notice patterns. For example, if you see that you've logged an unpleasant mood for a persistent length of time, you may benefit from taking a mental health questionnaire. A mental health questionnaire can provide more information about your risk for common conditions and help you identify next steps.
If your emotions or mood feel overwhelming, or if they are causing a significant impact to your daily life, it is a good idea to reach out to your doctor or care team.
Connect With Others
Social connection is one of the most important ways to care for your mental health. Social connection is when you feel close to and have a sense of belonging with others. These connections can come from many places such as school, work, family, or friends. There are numerous health benefits to close relationships including higher self-esteem, decreased chronic conditions, and reduced feelings of depression. Even something as simple as saying hello to someone walking by can have a positive impact on your wellbeing.
When people have too few social interactions, it can lead to feelings of loneliness. Feeling alone can be associated with difficulty with sleep, increased blood pressure, or struggling to manage your emotions and mood.
How to improve your connections to others:
• Volunteer in your community.
• Reach out to friends on a regular basis.
• Join a group focused on a hobby you like.
• Visit public spaces you enjoy.
Spend Time Outside
Nature, such as parks or forest preserves, can have a significant and positive impact on your health. Spending 15-30 minutes outdoors each day can reduce stress levels and increase positive feelings. It may also help your focus and attention. Being out in nature gives your body and mind a chance to reset and relax.
Benefits of spending time outdoors:
• Improves sleep.
• Reduces anxiety.
• Promotes creativity.
• Lowers stress.
• Improves physical health.
Stay Active
The mind and body rely on each other to function their best. Exercise is important for everyone to support their mental health.
Maintaining a regular exercise routine throughout the week can help you deal with stress, improve your cardiovascular health, and sleep better at night.
You don't have to exercise vigorously every day to receive the physical and mental health benefits. Just doing 30 minutes or more of exercise three times a week can improve your mood and emotional wellbeing.
Any activity you choose, from gardening to going for a run, can have a positive impact.
How to become more active:
• Walk with friends or a loved one.
• Play outside with kids, family, or friends.
• Try new physical activities.
• Take small breaks for activity throughout your day.
Eat Nutritious Foods and
Stay Hydrated
You likely know that eating nutritious foods and drinking plenty of water is good for your body, but it's also essential to keep your mind healthy. When your body's needs aren't met, you may be more distracted, stressed, or fatigued. A diet balanced of complex carbohydrates, lean protein, and fatty acids, can increase your energy, improve your mood and attention.
Some examples of a diverse diet:
• Complex carbohydrates: rice, sweet potatoes, beets, quinoa.
• Lean protein: nuts, seeds, chicken, eggs, soybeans.
• Fatty acids: fish, eggs, nuts, dark leafy greens.
When you don't get the right amount of food or water, it can make regulating emotions and moods more difficult. Thirst and hunger can also slow down many of the body's functions which can lead to feelings of confusion or tiredness. By eating regularly and staying hydrated, you help your body deliver the nutrients it needs to manage your emotions and care for your body each day.
Get Enough Sleep
Consistently sleeping at least seven hours is critical to caring for your mental health.
When you are asleep your brain stores memories and processes events from your day. When you don't get enough rest, it can make it difficult to deal with emotions you experience each day.
By getting the right amount of rest, you can reduce feelings of anxiety, improve focus, and increase positive feelings.
Why Sleep is so Important
Sleep occurs when your body and brain drop into an unconscious, restorative state.
While you're sleeping, many of your body's basic functions are altered or suspended while other specialized functions happen.
You may not remember much of your sleep, but you're likely to spend about a third of your life in this state.
Sleep can do remarkable things for you. It allows your body to rest and perform some essential maintenance on your memory, hormones, your immune system and other critical functions. It improves the brain's ability to learn, helps the body fight infection, allows your heart to rest, and can even lower blood pressure. Not getting enough sleep can have adverse affects in all of these areas and others.
So how do you know when you're getting the right amount sleep? When you wake up and feel rested, you've likely gotten enough.
The amount of sleep someone needs is highly individual. In general, adults should get 7-8 hours of sleep, kids should get 9-13 hours, and infants need between 12-15 hours.
Over the course of a day, you build up sleep pressure. You may find yourself nodding off or feeling tired. This is your body's way of saying it needs to sleep.
Done
About Sleep Stages
There are many misconceptions around sleep stages and the quality of sleep.
Scientists and doctors are still exploring the purpose of the different stages and the impact they have on the body. Generally, a stage is characterized by the types of brain waves that happen while you sleep. It's known that dreams happen during the Rapid Eye Movement (REM) stage and that deep sleep has a restorative effect on the body.
As you sleep, you're likely to cycle through the different stages multiple times.
Understanding Your Sleep
Tracking your sleep can help you understand the sleep you're getting and what may be impacting it. You can keep notes in a sleep journal, log your sleep in an app, or use a device that adds your sleep to Health.





























